[Music]
all right pet owners here are 10 warning
signs your pet is crying out for help
now you've probably heard that having a
pet increases your lifespan and it's
totally true
in fact owning a dog lowers the risk of
having a major heart attack by 3 percent
which might not sound too impressive but
that actually makes 30,000 save lives a
year in the US alone they do so much for
us but our little furry friends could
also use some saving when it comes to
health and since they can't tell you
when something's wrong you have to pay
attention to even the slightest changes
in their behavior and take necessary
measures immediately to keep your pet
safe and sound
coughing dogs and cats can suffer from
something called kennel cough this
condition doesn't require any special
treatment and usually goes away on its
own within two weeks but the only thing
is that it's highly contagious so if you
have more than one pet you might
consider keeping the affected one away
from the others kennel cough can be more
serious for puppies kittens and breeds
with pushed-in faces like boxers
Bulldogs pugs Pekinese Persians Scottish
Fold and British Shorthairs and that's
because their face shape may cause
additional breathing difficulties
there's also a cuff like sound you might
hear from time to time in smaller breeds
of dogs and cats this is called reverse
sneezing and it can indicate a slight
throat irritation it typically goes away
on its own as well but persistent
coughing or reverse sneezing that lasts
for more than two weeks is never a
normal thing it may be related to heart
or lung disease heartworm bronchitis
pneumonia or a tracheal collapse
vomiting
cats and dogs can vomit on occasion even
when they're not seriously ill and my
own dog prefers to do his barfing at
2:00 in the morning
yeah go figure now they sometimes eat
too much or too fast something in their
food doesn't always agree with their
system or they might run in play too
soon after a meal however vomiting can
also stem from gastrointestinal
illnesses pancreatitis kidney disease or
parasitic infections cats especially
really fluffy breeds may throw up a
hairball every now and then but if yours
is vomiting more than once a month you
should probably take it to the vet
dogs occasionally vomit if they've eaten
too much grass or gotten into the trash
but call the vet if your pup is throwing
up several times a day blood in the
vomit is a major red flag that could
indicate your pet has gulped down a
sharp object that's irritating its
stomach a swollen belly although a
distended abdomen could simply be a sign
that your pet is eaten too much it could
also indicate a digestive disorder
periodontists
hormonal imbalance or even internal
bleeding undiagnosed abnormal swelling
in the stomach could potentially be
life-threatening
as it puts additional pressure on the
chest cavity and makes it hard for your
dog or cat to breathe a swollen belly in
dogs can also be a symptom of an
extremely dangerous condition called
gastric dilatation volvulus if left
untreated this problem can turn out
fatal for a dog within hours which is
why it's often called the mother of all
emergencies it happens if food or gas
stretches a dog's belly to such an
extent that it cuts off blood supply to
the stomach
leading to tragic consequences bloat and
gvd can be caused by both swallowing air
and exercising too hard after a meal you
need to be extra careful if your dog is
a deep chested breed like a Saint
Bernard Weimaraner or Great Dane eats
from an elevated ball is given just one
meal a day tends to eat too fast
has a family history of gdv or bloat is
a senior the risk for those seven to
twelve years old is the highest letter G
if you're normally active pet suddenly
refuses to play with you or just lies
around all day it could be the first
sign of a bigger problem weakness or
lethargy and dogs and cats usually
accompanies all kinds of infections and
serious diseases like diabetes
hypoglycemia and anemia abnormal
restlessness
well restlessness itself isn't
necessarily a bad sign it could be your
pet's way of telling you it doesn't feel
well if your dog or cat is being anxious
or looks scared for no reason and is
constantly pacing shaking or whining
this can point to a range of health
issues including mange rabies Cushing's
disease or heart problems it could also
be a result of ingesting chocolate which
as you know should never be given to
neither dogs nor cats chocolate is
highly toxic for pets usually resulting
in theobromine poisoning if you think
your pet might have gotten into some
chocolate take it to the vet immediately
unexplained weight loss losing a little
weight shouldn't be a cause for concern
especially if your pet is eating fine
but if your dog or cat has lost 10% of
its normal body weight it could be a
sign of a serious issue such as a
metabolic disorder kidney or liver
problems neuromuscular disease or cancer
a lot of people think that when a dog or
cat gets old it naturally starts losing
weight but experts say this is simply
not true now when an animal gets older
it does become more susceptible to
diseases that can cause it to lose
weight but old age itself can't be the
reason for weight loss since it's not an
illness so if your elderly dog or cat
has started losing weight go to the vet
your pet is most likely ill excessive
licking
there's a number of medical problems
that can show themselves and pets
through constant licking the most common
reason why your dog or cat is
excessively cleaning the same spot could
be from pain or itching caused by fleas
or an allergy dogs occasionally lick
strange surfaces if they're having some
gastrointestinal issues licking behavior
in cats is often provoked by mental
health issues like boredom anxiety or
OCD indoor cats are more likely to
suffer from such disorders than ones
that live outside since they don't get
as much physical activity or excitement
cats can also stress out because of some
changes in their environment be it a new
baby in the house or a new pet sibling
urinating more or less frequently if
your pet is peeing more frequently than
it used to it can be a sign of diabetes
if that's the case the pet will also
constantly feel thirsty otherwise going
peepee too much can indicate kidney
liver or adrenal gland disease pay
attention if you're house trained pet is
having more and more accidents inside or
if your dog suddenly starts begging for
nighttime bathroom trips at the same
time if your dog or cat urinates too
little or has troubles with the process
it may be suffering from bladder stones
or urinary tract infection these
problems are extremely painful and
potentially life-threatening male cats
are especially prone to developing
crystals or stones in the bladder which
can lead to bladder inflammation and
bloody urine plus this debris is most
likely to plug up the urethra preventing
your pet from urinating at all if left
untreated it can become fatal within 24
hours so see your vet ASAP
hair loss or itching if your cat or dog
start losing hair on or around its ears
this can be a sign of fleas ticks ear
mites or mange and if that's not the
case then it can be from endocrine
problems or a fungal infection if you
notice your pet constantly scratching
its ears to the point that the hair is
coming off take it to the vet right away
laboratory testing will pinpoint if it's
parasites hormonal issues or some sort
of yeast or fungal infection lack of
appetite healthy cats and dogs won't
ever refuse a scheduled meal or a treat
while lack of appetite is a pretty vague
symptom you should sound the alarm if
your pet hasn't touched their food for
more than 24 hours in this case the best
thing to do is take it to the vet it can
be a sign of stress pain or fever by the
way this condition is more dangerous for
cats than it is for dogs if a cat goes
without food for even a few days it can
develop a fatal disease called fatty
liver which often results in liver
failure and death when left untreated
so what other symptoms and signs do you
look for in pets tell us in the comments
below don't forget to click Subscribe to
stay on the bright side of line
[Music]